Who in our generation
didn't dance back in the 1950s
to this gorgeous classic
"Samba no Arpège"?
Waldir had a band.
They played
at all the graduation dances.
And that chorus? Who sings it?
- The musicians themselves?
- Yes.
And your friend right here.
- Yes. I was there too.
- Beautiful.
In fact. Waldir himself
also did the chorus.
Beautiful.
"Folks who lack verve
Don't have the nerve to dance. you see
"Samba at the Arpège club
Is as sweet as can be."
Let's hear it.
"Samba no Arpège".
by Luiz Bandeira and Waldir Calmon.
Our story is set
in the Brazil of 1977.
a period of great mischief...
Hey.
Want me to fill 'er up?
Don't worry about that.
that's OK.
- You wanna fill 'er up?
- Well...
Yeah. fill 'er up. but...
What's that about?
Happened last Sunday.
Poor devil came with a knife
to steal oil cans...
Rivanildo. the night guy.
grabbed the 12-gauge
and shot 'im
in the chest and the face.
He never got up again.
Bastard got what he deserved.
Don't worry. you're a customer.
Nothing to do with that.
OK?
Fine then.
Back up a bit.
- To be near the pump.
- OK.
- He been there since Sunday?
- Yup.
I'll tell you the whole story.
He's been there since Sunday night.
carnival weekend.
Rivanildo called the owners.
I did too.
No answer.
Rivanildo ran away
to not be caught red-handed.
Went to a carnival party.
And I'm here with this mess.
Open the hood.
If I go away.
I'll lose my job.
If I stay here.
I'm stuck with rotting meat.
I'm almost getting used to this shit.
How much?
- Stop at 120. please.
- Right.
You didn't call the cops?
Oh the cops...
We did. they said they'd come
by Ash Wednesday
because it's too busy in carnival.
No sign of them so far.
It's now Tuesday.
Started stinking yesterday.
Oh. look at those dogs.
Hey dogs!
Beat it!
Scram!
Damn mongrels. beat it!
Outta here!
What the heck.
Thanks.
Goodbye.
At last.
Thank you.
FEDERAL MOTORWAY POLICE
He's been there since Sunday.
You ain't too soon.
We didn't even know about that one.
Meanwhile I'm in this misery.
- Morning. sir.
- Morning.
License and registration. please.
So you're not here about the body?
Not at all.
my partner asked to pull up to check
the yellow Beetle.
Can you show me
your fire extinguisher. please?
Would you step out of the car. sir?
Why?
I need to get inside your car.
You can trust me.
You really need to do that?
I do.
Please. step out.
Wait here. would you?
Fire extinguisher is good.
Yeah...
so it is.
No drugs in the car?
You don't smoke pot?
No.
A gun?
I don't carry a gun.
Keep going. don't stop.
Nobody wants to stop.
Isn't this spare a bit bald?
That's a good spare.
All right then.
Listen. sir...
Would you...
make a donation
to the Force's carnival fund?
Captain...
Not captain. I'm a sergeant.
Sergeant.
I've been driving for three days.
I just spent all I had left on gas.
If you want. though...
You can have some of these.
Cigarettes.
Can I keep 'em?
Sure thing.
Scram!
Get the hell outta here.
Beat it!
Shoo!
Goddamn mangy curs.
THE SECRET AGENT
From Pernambuco to the world.
Listeners of Jornal do Commercio.
good afternoon!
DRIVEN BY ME
GUIDED BY GOD
It's Shrove Tuesday.
So you've been made a cuckold. huh?
And it hurts?
Might as well sit back
and enjoy Chicago.
"If you leave me now".
MACUMBA IS THE POOR MAN'S TWIST
PART 1
THE BOY'S NIGHTMARE
OCEANOGRAPHY DEPARTMENT
Your blessing. Dad?
Chief Euclides.
I need to have a word with my boys.
do you mind?
Go on. get lost.
Before I go in...
give me the low-down.
Listen. Dad...
I think it's that punk from last week.
Ya what?
What the fuck?
You outta your mind?
You think I'd pull Dad
off a carnival party
if it wasn't serious?
Who's in charge here?
Aristeu. of the Cordeiro precinct.
Can't stand that faggot.
Fernando ain't around?
He's enjoying carnival.
- Any journalists?
- No.
Only a scientist and some students.
Is it the right one or the left one?
I couldn't see. I was too far.
It stinks.
Chief Euclides.
you needn't have come.
I'm really almost done here.
I'm Euclides Cavalcanti.
chief of police.
At your service.
The specimen was found on Sunday.
we have to act fast.
- You don't have a fridge here?
- It's broken.
As we were working on it.
we found the piece...
I mean. the leg.
I started to remove it.
but I thought it better not to.
We called the police.
Damn...
Where was the shark found.
or killed?
150 meters from the beach.
Up in Candeias.
And the leg...
is it of a male?
I'd rather not say anything.
That's for a medical examiner to say.
- A pocket knife? Don't.
- I'm used to this.
You'd damage the specimen.
I'll remove the piece myself.
Wait over there. please.
No pocket knives.
My gloves.
Professor. just a question.
Any pictures taken?
No pictures.
Professor.
is the shark male or female?
Male.
Fuck!
Mission accomplished.
Oh my. you got soaked through!
Over here.
- Dona Sebastiana?
- Yes. at your service.
- Marcelo?
- That's right.
- How are you?
- Very well.
- I need a ride.
- Sure. hop in.
This is Clóvis.
Get on the running board. kid!
- How are you. man?
- Good.
- Are you OK there?
- Yes.
Off we go.
Didn't the pigs nab you
when they saw that beard?
They robbed me today!
- How?
- They stole my cigarettes.
Give 'em nothing!
You can have some of my cigarettes.
I'd never let 'em steal mine.
How long you been a smoker?
For 60 years.
You're joking! How old are you?
77. it's on my birth certificate.
I was born in 1900.
Give him a hand.
- Can you open the trunk?
- It's open.
Welcome.
- Is this the man?
- It is.
Welcome!
OFIR MADHOUSE
Got you some beer.
A welcome drink.
Mary mother of God...
Haroldo.
Marcelo.
Oh man...
This party been going since 7.
No one's slept for two nights.
Come on. Dona Sebastiana!
Let's go home. you better rest.
- See you later.
- Welcome.
Look who's here!
Tereza Victória.
This is Marcelo. just arrived.
Hello.
- Hi. nice to meet you.
- You too.
This is António. her husband.
They're from Angola.
How's things over there?
Gosh. you'd better have some time.
We can have a chat and I'll tell you.
Dona Sebastiana.
they're pretty lively today. huh?
Don't worry.
I'll ask them to turn the music down.
I have a splitting headache.
- I'll handle it.
- OK.
- Welcome.
- Thanks. hope you feel better.
- See you later.
- Nice meeting you.
This is the Ofir.
I've lived here for twenty years.
And this is my niece Geisa's apartment.
I got it all ready for you.
You really mean business!
- All nice and tidy.
- It's a great apartment.
Fully furnished.
I asked Clóvis to come
and clean it up.
Can I put these in the bedroom?
Yes. Clóvis.
He cleaned the whole place up
and removed all the dust.
But I wanted more.
so I brought some scents yesterday.
fresh rue leaves and coarse salt.
And I performed a cleansing ritual.
You're wonderful.
- Consider this your home.
- Thank you so much.
What about you? Are you in school?
- No. I'm not.
- How come?
He arrived here last month.
from Rio Formoso.
Running away
from his father and uncle.
They wanted him to be a man
the way they wanted.
Clóvis is a man.
- Aren't you?
- Yes. I am a man.
Only. not the way they want.
So he's helping me out here.
Does everything I ask.
waters the plants.
picks mangoes.
does everything.
Then after the soap opera.
he goes to bed.
We'll see about his school later.
You need to go to school.
So. there's a cat in the house.
Dona Sebastiana. what is this?
Are you allergic to cats?
No. I do like cats. but...
They were born out in the country.
They were gonna be put down.
Geisa brought 'em here.
This is Liza and Elis.
- Liza and Elis?
- Yes.
Liza and Elis...
Do they come with the apartment?
Sort of.
When Geisa went away.
she left me the cats.
They were up there with me.
but kept coming to scratch at the door.
So I thought. "Goodness.
"they miss Geisa so much.
they'll ruin the door."
So I asked Clóvis to make that hole.
it's ugly as hell.
I told you it would be ugly.
Yes. you did.
It's all my fault. honey.
But it's ugly. can't be denied.
Ruined the door.
Now cats and dogs come and go.
Girls. this is Marcelo.
who I told you about.
Marcelo. that's Joana there.
And the chubby one is Maria.
Hi there.
Excuse me.
They work in the building.
Hello. Dona Sebastiana.
My new neighbor Cláudia
and her daughter Débora.
- Hello.
- Hi. nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you.
What's with the girl's head?
Lice.
She's infested.
Cláudia is a teacher and a dentist.
Separated!
She's lovely.
- She came here to meet you.
- Stop it.
'Course not.
It's gonna work out.
I was just passing by.
I like to spill the beans.
- Some piece of work you are.
- Whatever happens...
No.
- Nice to meet you.
- Likewise.
- Welcome to our building.
- Thanks.
If you need anything. I live upstairs.
- The floor above?
- Yeah.
- Is Clóvis up there?
- He is.
I'll ask him to get me cigarettes.
Good meeting you.
Now you know everything.
I have something for you.
Here.
You have to be there
very early on Friday morning.
- At five in the morning.
- Thank you.
It's great to be able to help.
I found a house on the sea front
There's coconut trees
and a hammock for us to put up
And then. love
I'll feel love in your arms
In beautiful splendor
And then
We'll follow the road
No longer only the two of us
JAWS
All those sharks.
Yeah. Grampa.
I was drawing that movie poster.
When will I be able to see it?
Fernando. it's rated 14.
Plus. you'll have nightmares.
I already have nightmares. Grampa.
If I had any peace left.
it's gone for good.
Dona Lenira. I am going to see my son.
You really think you should be here?
I will see Fernando. Mr. Alexandre.
Is he in?
Fernando.
There was a leg inside a shark.
Were you afraid?
A human leg?
Yeah. a human person's leg.
- You saw that on TV?
- On Grampa's radio.
You can't see things
on Grampa's radio.
You can only hear.
We'll have to find...
the guy who lost his leg
and stick it back on.
With a screw or...
some glue. or a bit of string.
- Or sew it back on.
- Right.
With that thing.
Dad. can Mom be
with us here now?
Our memory of your mom
is here with us now.
When we think about someone.
it's like having them with us.
But can she come back?
No. son.
Mom got sick and died.
She's not coming back.
Remember when you had a cold
and you had a high fever?
Yes. I remember.
Pneumonia means
the fever is way. way higher.
Wow!
Like 50 degrees?
Like 50.
So sad. isn't it?
It is. but you and I are here.
And Mom's also with us.
our memory of her is.
And I'm not living with you now
only because I can't.
But I came here for that reason.
All right?
In order for us to live
and be together forever.
You and me.
SÃO PAULO STATE
That's always playing at The City.
Oh yeah?
What about the women?
Good.
SÉRGIO MOTTA DAM
There's Oliveira.
- Oliveira!
- Lieutenant.
You know I don't usually
ask questions but...
I got curious.
What's with this old woman
in the back?
What will I get if I tell you?
Fuckin' zilch.
Fuck.
Fuck off.
What about that woman?
I'm curious.
Feels like an itch
you can't scratch. huh?
Inheritance and envy.
They just got here.
I'm almost done.
GHIROTTI
COMPONENTS OF BRAZIL
This is the person.
Apparently. he's fled to Recife.
I'll find out more
and I'll let you know.
Is he white. indigenous.
brown or black?
He's white.
Line of work?
It's in that paper.
The one on the right.
with the beard.
A guy like him...
As you must know. it's more expensive.
I'll charge you 60.000 cruzeiros.
Plus travel. accommodation
and expenses.
I'll pay 40.000.
I want a first-class service.
And I don't want any kind of trouble.
Don't contact me again.
Pretend I don't exist.
You're on your own.
With all due respect. Mr. Girotti...
Ghirotti!
Mr. Ghirotti.
We've fought
a few battles together before.
There's no point
pretending to negotiate.
when you know my price is fair.
60.000 cruzeiros.
30.000 now.
30.000 later.
- You two always together?
- Always.
That's right.
We'll sign the contract together.
Now. if you don't agree.
I understand and respect it.
This holiday just flew by.
He's a despicable man.
I want...
a hole.
A hole?
In his mouth.
Make him a dummy. you understand?
You can rest assured.
All right.
60.000 it is.
So no cavities. huh?
I have tartar.
There. Found one.
And it's huge.
Easy.
Marcelo!
Yes. Dona Sebastiana?
The groceries are here.
Come meet Valdemar.
- Your time's up.
- Oh no. it's not!
I don't feel like kissing.
What do you mean?
We did too much kissing already.
OK then.
You know Geisa's story?
Dona Sebastiana's niece?
The owner of that bed.
of this home.
I was told she went away
and left her things here.
That's not true.
Her fiancé killed her.
Got angry because she got a scholarship
to study in Germany.
What are you telling me?
- What a tragedy.
- Yes.
How do you know that?
Dona Sebastiana told me.
I realized she was telling people
a different story.
Dona Sebastiana.
- Hello.
- How are you?
I'm well. I've felt worse.
But for a 77-year-old.
I'm doing great.
Joana.
Hey. good morning.
Morning.
You're ready. darling?
You called. ma'am?
Can you collect my groceries?
Where were you?
Out helping someone
who had a toothache.
He giving you any trouble?
I am giving him trouble.
He's in good hands.
I'm in love with this woman.
- Our guardian.
- She is.
He's well taken care of.
So tell me.
you bring that every week?
Every Thursday.
My parents own a farm.
We gather whatever surplus we have.
and I bring over fruit. vegetables...
- So we don't have to go out there?
- Right.
Maria!
- Dona Sebastiana.
- Hello.
- Morning. Valdemar.
- Morning.
Hi. Marcelo.
You're checking out
our refugee groceries?
Any mangabas today?
No. we're out of mangabas.
Let's try to avoid that word. shall we?
We don't use it here.
"Mangaba"?
"Refugee".
What are we then?
Flávia.
Hang on.
- Say again?
- Which date are you listening to?
February 25. 1977.
What about you?
The '78 tape.
Of Sebastiana.
Right.
The arrangement was
for him to go to the office
at five in the morning
and ask for Anísio.
who was our contact there.
And so he went.
PART 2
IDENTIFICATION INSTITUTES
Wake up.
Keep an eye out.
"Human leg found in shark's..."
Nothing here I don't already know.
and there'll never be.
Get a load of that.
"Agronomy student still missing."
Dear Lord. how unlucky can you get...
We couldn't have known
he was a good boy.
How were we supposed to know?
ROBERTO SANTELMO
INSTITUTE FOR IDENTIFICATION
Look at that.
Why do you worry so much
about what the papers say?
Because there could be
some little communist fuckers
trying to trip us up. son.
As long there's no body.
we'll be fine.
Just the leg will get 'em nowhere.
Now...
What about the leg?
It's at the city morgue.
Marcelo?
Yes. Anísio?
A punctual man. you are.
I was told to come early.
We were all told the same.
Let's go in.
- Das Dores?
- Yes?
- Bring coffee and water. please.
- OK.
- Easy on the sugar.
- Sure.
- You don't have a São Paulo accent.
- I'm from Pernambuco.
Oh. I see.
Your Pernambuco accent
sounds a bit off. though.
Geraldo. at this desk please.
Good morning. Dona Dagmar.
It's like a normal working day.
all right?
Sit at that desk.
- Where will I sit?
- At the back.
The last desk over there.
We're here today to support
police chief Euclides.
who you saw down there.
The office opens at seven
to the public.
That's when you'll get down to work.
We got here at five.
but it only opens at seven?
That's right.
You'll have time to settle in.
And most importantly.
we meet quorum.
Meet quorum for what?
Mr. Formiga.
No. it's Elisângela.
I'm expecting
a parcel of clothes this morning.
Can you keep it by for me?
And tell the boy.
Thanks.
Are you having a coxinha?
Sure.
Looks good.
I got three down on your tab.
- A coxinha. newbie?
- No. thanks.
Just 1 cruzeiro 50.
Thanks. I had breakfast.
Are you sure?
You can use this room.
- I reserved it for you.
- Thanks.
Hey. everyone.
You were invited to come.
You stay here. OK?
Who's the woman?
A girl who was about three
was run over and died
outside her house.
The girl was her housemaid's daughter.
That's why police chief Euclides.
over there.
asked Anísio to round us all up
before opening hours.
We came early
for the lady's deposition.
Is this a police station?
No.
It's a police station today
to make life easier for the posh lady.
Such a heartless woman.
She asked her housemaid
to go buy bread.
And left the girl alone crying.
the poor thing.
The gate was open.
The girl went out.
maybe to look for her mother.
Got run over by a bus.
Apparently.
the girl's mother was never told
they changed the place and time
of her deposition.
Excuse me.
please go back to your desks.
Come on.
Let's cooperate
with police chief Euclides.
Excuse me.
Good morning.
Thank you very much for being here.
The deposition is in my office.
You can do your job
as if it were a normal working day.
After your deposition.
the photojournalists will take a picture.
Let's please cooperate
with police chief Euclides.
I have a commission position.
Dear Newbie. are you married
and/or do you enjoy
the company of women?
Yes.
But...
I enj...
I enjoy it.
But it's...
complicated.
CARNIVAL DEATH TOLL: 91
HUMAN LEG FOUND
IN SHARK'S STOMACH
It's gonna be over 100.
You can bet on it.
Over 100 dead?
For sure.
- Are you a cop?
- No. I'm not.
You sure look like one.
No. I'm not a cop.
Euclides Oliveira Cavalcanti.
- At your service.
- Marcelo.
Marcelo what?
Alves.
Marcelo Alves.
A cop's name.
No. I'm not a cop.
A photojournalist is coming in now.
That woman is in great pain.
Kids are a handful.
Anyway. I'm the chief of police.
My office is next door.
- Anything you need. just call.
- Thank you very much.
This one walking over...
is Anísio.
- You've met him?
- Euclides.
He's starting with us today.
Comes highly recommended.
I'll show you the archive room.
- Yes.
- Where we keep our archives.
If there's anything you need.
glad to help.
Nice meeting you.
That...
police chief Euclides
is quite a character.
Oh him.
An imperfect human being.
Better keep him near.
On the other hand.
his white son.
Sérgio...
God help us...
On my way. boss.
Again. Desidério?
- Good morning.
It's these hours. boss.
They mess up my routine.
Go on to the front door.
Goodness me...
Talk about a whore lover.
Crissakes.
- This is your workplace.
- Fine.
Jesus Christ!
- Don't mind the welcome.
- No worries.
Your work involves
a lot of back and forth.
ID card renewals happen here.
I worked in this place from '66
to '73.
Too many dead people.
Give me a name.
Maria Aparecida dos Santos.
You got me there.
Your mother?
Father's name is easier.
OK then. try...
Lourinaldo Fernando de Melo Solimões.
"Solimões"...
Now that's a name!
The rest is just filler.
Lourinaldo...
Lourinaldo Fernando.
That's him all right.
- Still a student.
- A father's name is easier.
Be right there.
Marcelo.
I am also here to help you.
I'm working with Elza.
I'll say no more.
Hear that?
- It's the girl's mother.
- The dead girl's?
Our orders are. no one gets in.
I know she's in there.
You can't come in. ma'am.
Dona Cleide!
Don't touch me.
Dona Cleide. I know you're in there!
I know you're there!
I want in.
I want to speak to her.
I want her to say it to my face!
Let me go!
Dona Cleide.
I know you're in there!
I wanna hear you say
why you did that.
Why'd you leave my daughter alone?
You're denying my client
access to a public building!
Go away!
Look who's at the phone booth.
What's up. my man?
Let's go across the street.
I have something to show you.
you'll love it.
- Right now?
- Yep.
I'm gonna introduce you to a swell guy.
I'm taking my boys to see him.
you can come along.
- Chief Euclides. right?
- At your service. Let's go.
- Across the street?
- Won't take long.
I need to make a call.
Does it have to be now?
He's there now.
Dad likes you. man.
You're in luck.
C'mon.
Across the street?
Across the street.
Once upon a time
there was a king
who had a big flea
whom he loved very much
like his own son...
[In Portuguese]
Thirty-eight.
He sent for his tailor.
The tailor came...
Here!
Hans!
My friend!
I know that voice.
Hello. old chap.
Where's Hans?
I brought a friend to meet him.
Tell him I'm not in.
How are you. Chief Euclides?
Couldn't we do this some other time?
- Can I come in? Hans!
- Sir...
Chief Euclides is here!
Hans!
Good morning!
My German friend!
I want you to meet a friend of mine.
Marcelo. this is Hans.
A real German soldier from World War II.
This man has some stories to tell!
Not today.
Tired.
Show your scars
to my kids and my friend.
Chief Euclides...
We're grateful
for your work in the neighborhood.
But please come another time.
Hans is under the weather.
Chief. please.
Let me have a word with Hans.
I just want to see his scars.
Not today.
tired.
Tired!
Hans. you don't have to do this.
Holy smokes!
The Negro speaks German!
Dad. I don't think he's in the mood.
Hans.
listen.
Show us the bullet holes
in your legs.
C'mon. do it.
I think
he doesn't want to talk.
Show us your scars.
Are there sharks in Germany?
Bullet wounds?
- Awesome!
- Holy shit.
- It's a mess.
- Didn't I tell you?
Germany?
Belgium.
Have you seen enough
or do you want more?
Hans...
I'm doing this for us.
This idiot
ensures your and our protection.
He'll never understand
that you're a Jew.
Forever.
Out!
Get out of my office!
And take your friends.
Out!
You can only talk that way
because you are
a World War II soldier.
Get out now.
What the fuck!
BRASÍLIA - FEDERAL DISTRICT
Costa & Carpinteiro Associates. hello?
I'd like to speak to João Pedro.
I'll put you through.
Excuse me. it's our friend.
I'll put him through.
Hi. João. What's going on there?
Listen carefully.
I hope you're fine.
Don't say where you are.
- Why?
- This call isn't safe.
Our phones are tapped.
Listen.
we can only talk on a safe line.
- Hang up now.
- João...
I'll hang up...
Send me a number
and I'll call you.
Send the number how?
Fuck!
Telegram.
PHONE NO 216180 STOP
EXTENSION 22 STOP
EXPECT CONTACT 5:30 PM
STOP
- Hello.
Telegram.
Why did you open it?
I didn't read it. though.
If you didn't read it.
why open it?
Not sure what to say...
"The great dragon was cast out.
"It is the great serpent..."
- Pedro?
- It's me.
I'd like to speak to Mr. Alexandre.
He's expecting you.
NO ENTRY
Some stairs. huh?
There's a woman...
possessed by a spirit in the foyer.
It's this movie.
- Any calls for me?
- No.
But someone sent you a message.
Have a good day. Dad.
Fernando
Thanks.
Let's go in.
AUTHORIZED STAFF ONLY
You're doing a Jaws rerun?
Pedro programmed it
for Saturday morning.
It's that leg business
in the shark's stomach.
People love it.
By the way.
Fernando is dying to see Jaws.
I thought I'd bring him on Saturday.
Are you joking?
I'd let him see it.
It's too intense for him.
The kid has nightmares
just from seeing the poster.
There's a...
Happens every single day.
Every single day.
Fátima used to love that window.
She liked to sit right there
where you are.
I want to ask you a question.
Looking in the eye.
When you two were married.
you fucked around a lot.
didn't you?
What are you on about.
after all this time?
Did you or didn't you?
Mr. Alexandre...
Fátima and I loved each other
very much.
You know that better than anyone.
don't you?
I do.
Fernando's the greatest proof of that.
Now.
did you or did you not fuck around?
Hold on.
It's for you.
Hi. João. It worked.
Good to speak to you
and to know you're fine.
I must be quick.
I don't have many tokens.
He managed to get your name
on the Federal Police's list.
That means you can't leave the country.
That's very bizarre.
I can't travel?
I'm trying
to wrap my head around it.
He's pulling his strings.
It's foul play at the highest level.
I'm telling you.
he managed to get
a serious prosecutor off the case.
pro-regime. but serious.
and had him replaced by a crook.
...a friend of his.
What the fuck!
I have to say.
it's not looking good at all.
So please.
don't stick your neck out.
stay in the shadows.
It's my last token.
Listen carefully.
Elza
is the most important character
in the story now.
Elza.
Great place.
The Rio technician stays here.
Saves hotel expenses.
- Mr. Alexandre?
- Alexandre de Jesus do Nascimento.
- I'm Elza.
- Pleased to meet you.
- I'm Valdemar.
- Hello.
What should I call you?
Here. you can call me
by my name. Armando.
Such an honor to talk to you here.
You never mentioned a fake name.
That's not really in order. is it?
No. it isn't.
And thanks for the free tickets.
We just saw the movie.
Did you like it?
I'm not a religious person.
but it was scary.
Valdemar almost shat himself.
I don't like horror movies.
Can I record our conversation?
Record whatever your like.
Recording.
This is like
those American
witness protection programs.
Over there. things are done
with a lot of dough.
and by their government.
Over here. it's all a bit improvised.
Brazilian style.
And to protect you from Brazil.
How many people are you helping?
With you.
four people here in Recife.
Plus. two in Fortaleza
and one in Salvador.
In Recife.
we're all in that building?
Look. each case is different.
- So we all help each other.
- Right.
And who's paying for all this?
It's paid for by the daughter...
of a very wealthy São Paulo family...
that's long been robbing
the country blind.
How was it at work today?
So. you placed me
at a police station.
seriously?
No. it's not a police station.
You asked for
the Institute for Identification.
I did.
I'll try to find
the only document that proves
my late mother did exist.
But today.
that place was a police station.
Police chief and all.
Did you two talk?
He's a real prick.
a bastard.
The worst thing is.
he seemed to like me.
Just so you know.
we have an ally there.
Anísio.
Is it OK for him to know who I am?
Anísio's helping.
But he doesn't know you
or what's being done to you.
Tell me about the passports.
Mine and my son's?
Don't know if you're aware.
but I'm on a list
of the Federal Police
banning me from travelling.
Given the situation.
we agree
that you need a fake passport.
We can handle that.
I can get you those papers.
but it'll take a few days.
What's going on?
I don't get it.
Why do I need a fake passport?
I've done nothing wrong...
And what's in it for you?
Who are you?
I'm a pediatrician.
I'm only trying to help.
Armando. it's not about that now.
Think about your son.
My grandson.
Think about my daughter. Fátima.
Mr. Alexandre.
all I do is think about my son.
I'm very sorry about your daughter.
Mr. Alexandre.
And your wife. Armando.
How could this country
lose someone like Fátima?
Brazil will pay dearly for that.
I disagree.
With all due respect.
It'll pay nothing.
It won't pay shit.
Armando. I admire you.
but you should leave.
If I was you.
I'd get the hell out of here.
I'd take their help and leave today.
That's why I've arranged this.
Mr. Alexandre...
We need to protect what we still have.
You and my grandson.
I'll be in the projection booth.
Lock the door.
We'd like to know more
about Henrique Castro Ghirotti.
and how he got involved in this.
I'll let it all out.
I'll get this
off my chest.
It's a conversation.
Recorded.
Tell me about this...
Henrique Ghirotti.
I...
am not a violent person.
But this man...
I'd kill him with a hammer.
I'd bash his head in with a hammer.
Do you...
carry a gun?
No. but I know how to use a hammer.
I need to go to the bathroom.
She paused recording to go pee...
We'd like to know more
about Henrique Castro Ghirotti.
and how he got involved in this.
Flávia?
...off my chest.
It's a conversation.
Which date are you listening to?
- Sorry?
- Which date are you listening to?
It's Elza with "Marcelo".
in quotes.
February 25. 1977.
I haven't finished it yet. though.
Marcelo is Armando.
you know that. right?
That's what I just heard here.
but I got confused.
So Marcelo is actually Armando.
- It's a fake name.
- It is.
You're clever. Flávia!
Which one are you listening to?
The tape of Anísio.
Of '76.
Right.
I need to go to the bathroom.
How did you meet Ghirotti?
He came on a visit to the university.
As head of department.
I'd sometimes meet guests
at the airport. here in Recife.
He was on the board of Eletrobras.
under the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
So. you're Armando.
I read your CV.
I pictured you differently.
- I'll take it as a compliment.
- Yes. Hot. isn't it?
What was your first impression?
Of Ghirotti?
A piece of shit.
And his son. another piece of shit.
How long have you been
head of department?
I got back from postdoc research
about two years ago.
Now I'm making up
for my research leave.
And I was elected.
Do you ever consider working
in industry?
An industry makeover would do you
a lot of good.
I enjoy doing research.
Did he say "an industry makeover"?
Yes.
I needed an industry makeover.
When was that?
That was
in August 1974.
We introduced him to everyone.
in the department.
Luanda Azevedo was there.
Marcelo Vasconcelos.
Sebastião Pires...
We showed him around the whole place.
We showed him our labs.
all our projects...
The electric autonomy project.
the electric car project...
The leather tanning machine.
which was a highlight
of our department.
Let me introduce you to my colleagues.
That was it. The following day
there was a meeting.
At that meeting. he basically...
shut us down.
To save time.
I'll go straight to the point.
As far as Eletrobras is concerned.
far away from Pernambuco.
the work you're doing here
should be part of a whole.
in my view.
You're too much on your own.
disconnected from us down South.
I'd like to concentrate in Rio
the object of some of your research
and decision-making.
Precisely to avoid that old discussion
on how things work differently
in the North and the South.
I know you people have
this different accent.
a different way of doing things.
Even your head of department
is the hairy type.
Right. Armando?
Long live differences. right?
What I'm trying to say is.
I'm surprised at what I've seen here.
Excuse me.
Just for...
the sake of clarity.
All our projects
are published in the Official Gazette.
I don't see why you're surprised.
- Let me finish.
- Unless you haven't read it.
I meant it in a positive way.
- Just to get that clear.
- It's a compliment.
Oh all right...
By the way.
the leather-tanning technology...
which measures the leather surface area.
is important for local culture.
Bulls. goats. cows...
It's relevant
for the economy of the Nordeste.
I like it.
This is a regional center.
it's not a national center.
much less an international one.
Take the electric car.
a project you showed me.
By the way.
Armando is also working on it.
There's more advanced research
being conducted in Canada.
In fact. we've acquired 12 prototypes
from the Canadian consortium.
- Through Eletrobras.
- I'd like to add...
You and your company
are part of that consortium.
Eletrobras.
Eletrobras has indeed acquired
12 prototypes from the consortium.
Eletrobras?
- Not your own company?
- Eletrobras. May I carry on?
So...
I wonder
if taxpayer money
should be spent here
in the Nordeste.
on projects like this...
He can't be serious.
...when you have so many problems
of your own to solve.
And on top of that.
competing with bigger dicks abroad.
Dr. Ghirotti.
I'm Luanda Azevedo.
I'm a research professor.
with a degree from the Federal
University of Rio Grande do Sul.
- You're from the South?
- Yes. I am.
All our projects are funded
by public research money.
And we have partnership projects
funded by foreign independent
trust money.
It's time to rethink
your funding criteria.
especially your independence.
Luanda was our first casualty.
She went to work
at the São Paulo metro.
where that prick was
on the Technical Committee.
That happened to all the team?
Yes.
It was a real "industry makeover".
He dried up public university funding
for his own personal benefit.
It's just...
And then I was
showered with accusations.
I'm not sure you know.
but two planted articles were published.
coordinated hit pieces against you.
in Rio and São Paulo newspapers.
Thank God.
we haven't seen anything
in any of the Recife papers.
This will all pass.
I hope it will.
Mr. Alexandre.
please sit over here
so I can look at you.
I told you the story
in the wrong order.
The evening before that meeting.
we went out for dinner.
Myself.
Fátima.
Ghirotti and that son of his.
She started as your secretary.
didn't she?
Restroom.
What a beautiful woman you have.
Would you like some water?
Yes. please.
I invited you to dinner
with my wife.
And she's just told you
she's a teacher. hasn't she?
But I know why you're doing that.
It's the lithium battery research.
isn't it?
I patented the research.
It's my project.
It's a small breakthrough.
but it's my patent.
Whisky. please.
My nose never fails. eh son?
You know me.
This fellow is using the university
to patent research.
- I demand respect.
- Yeah...
He uses the public system
to access the market.
We need to shut down
all these shitholes.
- Easy money. huh?
- I demand respect.
Public money is easy money.
I am head of the research center
you're visiting.
I'm a public servant
at the university that's hosting you.
- I can't believe this.
- I knew I had to come here.
I knew it.
Armando. I'm in engineering.
I run a family company.
built on sweat and hard work.
My father is Italian. from Genoa.
I have Italian blood.
You've no idea
who you're messing with. boy.
You're a communist.
- I'm not a communist.
- You are.
Are you a capitalist?
- More a communist than a capitalist.
- Look here.
You know the map.
Brazil.
North.
To each his place.
Cool. man.
Fátima.
I work for the university
that's hosting you.
I'm not a boy as you just called me.
I demand respect.
The dinner's paid for.
Meeting's at 8:30 tomorrow.
Pick-up at 8.
Come if you want. If not. tough.
That idiot needn't come.
Let me just say something quick.
I got up because I felt this urge
to piss and to throw up.
It was gone the second I got up.
Control your woman.
You've been disrespectful to us.
Truly disrespectful.
- Let's go.
- Wait.
- No. no...
- Control your woman.
Now you will listen.
I kept quiet the whole evening
out of respect for Armando.
Disrespectful. especially
for a father in the presence of his son.
I think of my own father now.
who's a humble man.
He started working at the age of nine.
That is a man.
That is a man. You hear me?
Like my husband.
This is a man.
C'mon. let's go.
But you are drunk.
and you are drunk.
You should be ashamed.
What kind of people are you?
And the secretary says up yours.
Go fuck yourself.
- Easy there!
- Go fuck yourself.
Fuck you too.
- Stay seated.
- Armando...
Armando. don't...
- To each his place.
- Calm down.
I hadn't punched anyone
since school.
School. back in the '50s.
And the meeting still took place...
As I told you.
Did Fátima really say that about me?
She did. Mr. Alexandre.
All right.
OK then...
Well...
Ghirotti is a criminal.
He belongs in jail.
And when I say that.
I don't mean a penal farm.
He should be in Carandiru.
What he does is treason.
He's a crook...
and a murderer.
In your group of.
let's say. "refugees".
yours is the case
I want the most to solve.
I understand... These two
foreign universities want to take me.
They must be pressuring you.
It's not that...
Those foreign schools do want you.
that's great.
But it's not about that.
We've been informed
that two men have been hired
to come to Recife to find you.
That's not good.
They work as a pair.
they're from the state of Rio.
The older one is Augusto Borba.
Ex-military.
got kicked out of the army in 1970.
He was based in Minas Gerais.
Not even these shitty armed forces
wanted him.
He's a degenerate.
The younger one. Bobbi.
is his stepson.
Some say
the stepfather killed Bobbi's mother.
And now they work together.
You're telling me
hitmen are out to get me?
Yes.
Is Ghirotti behind this?
And the passports?
A week. ten days at most.
In your hands in four days.
Four days?
Such a lack of respect.
For Fátima. for you
and for your son. who's at my place.
She was so healthy...
Four days?
PERNAMBUCO INSTITUTE
OF FORENSIC MEDICINE
I need to talk to you
about something outside.
What is it?
It's very important.
- Why?
- We better go outside.
Hold it outside.
C'mon. Lúcio.
Move it.
Arlindo has a leg up in the air.
Holy fuck!
This is gonna be huge!
Listen up.
"Hairy Leg strikes again!"
The cartoon turned out great.
The Hairy Leg!
The piranhas are
coming out tonight.
You're throwing this shit over. Sérgio.
- What?
- You're throwing it.
Here.
Pull up here.
Stop. stop!
I'll make that call.
São Luiz Cinema. good evening?
I'd like to speak to Mr. Alexandre.
I think he already left.
I'll connect you to the booth.
Thanks.
External call.
Could I speak to Mr. Alexandre. please?
He left early today.
Who's calling please?
Just confirming. his name is
Alexandre Jesus do Nascimento. right?
I can't help you with that. man.
Leave your name.
I'll tell 'im...
What the...
Seems his father-in-law works
at the São Luiz Cinema.
not the other one.
Now that's the man!
They're here.
God damn.
Look at this fucking tourist!
My colonel is punctual.
Check out that hat!
In your goddamn honor!
- What's with the police truck?
- Get in.
- C'mon.
- That's what it's about.
Everyone in!
That's my colonel.
"My colonel".
Look who's talking.
My lieutenant.
Lieutenant. my ass.
First lieutenant!
And proud of the uniform I once wore.
Let me introduce my stepson. Bobbi.
Or Abdias.
On his birth certificate. it's Abdias.
He's a big boy.
Everything good. Abdias?
Is he a good shot?
You have no idea.
This is Sérgio.
His mother's son.
The other one is Arlindo.
he's like a son.
I prefer "Bobbi". Mr. Euclides.
It's Chief Euclides.
I don't sell sweets on the streets.
OK?
I haven't worked my ass off
all my life
to be called some "mister" now.
What's with "Bobbi" anyway?
That a man's name?
They were out of men's names that day?
Chief Euclides.
- Better.
- He's tough. kiddo.
He don't like being called "mister".
gets worked-up.
You got that. right?
So chill now.
You guys here on a mission?
C'mon. let's not go there.
Never mix friendship and work. OK?
Carnival was quite a blast.
Almost 100 gone.
I read in the paper
about the extravaganza.
There was even a leg
swallowed by a shark.
A tale for tourists.
Speaking of which.
are we going for a "ride"?
A "ride"?
We are going for a "ride".
Hell yeah.
We sure are going for a "ride".
Where are we going?
Cool it. kid.
Today we're just tourists.
we ain't going for no "ride".
What's the plan?
It's been taken care of.
It's all taken care of.
One is a "157".
The other one is a "157" and "213".
They're in the back.
In there already?
"157" and "213".
Holy fuck.
"213" means...?
Commonly known as rape.
"157" is
"aggravated robbery with homicide".
Only good boys.
"A local man named
Pedro Jorge do Nascimento.
"27. a student.
"living in the Mustardinha district.
"was out on an evening walk
in 13 de Maio Park
"with a friend by the name
of Alexandrino Borges. 32.
"a dental prosthetist
living at Bomba do Hemetério.
"when they were caught by surprise
"by a shadow that came
hopping out of nowhere
"and started kicking them."
But this is so odd.
Odd. but we all know
what that is. don't we?
It's treated as news in the paper!
Tereza. read the bit about the attack.
It's great.
Read it.
- But you've read it.
- I have.
But it sounds so much better
in your Angolan accent.
Thank you.
Oh my word!
Hello. everyone.
- Welcome.
- Oh my darling.
- All's well?
- Yes.
Marcelo.
glad you came to say goodbye.
Dona Sebastiana told me.
- I wanted to be with you.
- Viva!
I'm Geraldo. a friend of Sebastiana's.
"The Hairy Leg"
is all the rage in Casa Amarela.
A bit anarchic. don't you think?
- Can I make a call?
- If it's not long distance.
Help me with the dishes. Clóvis.
I don't like Recife.
I haven't been treated well here.
I'm sorry I'm calling this late.
I'd like to leave a message
for Mr. Alexandre.
I really want to speak to my son.
It's a peculiar city. but...
OK.
"The Hairy Leg" that hops away
would be huge in Luanda!
Thank you. Zuleika.
Thank you.
- Is that cachaça?
- It is.
Long live Mr. Marcelo.
Marcelo is your assumed name. right?
Marcelo...
My name is Armando.
But call me Marcelo if you wish.
I'd rather not reveal my...
my real name.
"Tereza Victória"...
was the name of a dear aunt of mine.
In reality. I've always wanted to be
"Tereza Victória".
A lovely name.
I like compound names.
The names are for your own security.
It's not easy to be called
by another name.
It's just a precaution.
My own name's Sebastiana.
I didn't change it.
My name's Clóvis.
Just Clóvis really.
I wish I was as brave as you people.
I really do.
But it's not easy
to live under a death threat.
I am under a death threat.
I am under a death threat too.
Let's cheer things up.
I'll play some music.
Dona Sebastiana.
I never meant to dampen the mood.
Give me a hand.
I said that because...
I'm alive. I'm strong.
I have my son.
I want to live.
It's just that...
I found out today
that I'm under a death threat.
It was quite a surprise.
For someone who fell out
with both camps in Angola.
finding refuge here
was so good.
Now António and I are going away.
On a plane with no Portuguese flag.
we insisted on that.
Tereza. you're talking too much.
Dona Sebastiana.
you're the best.
Thank you very much.
You're very welcome.
Where are you two going. Tereza?
No need to talk about that.
But thank you.
My niece Geisa loved this song.
Better said. she loves it.
I think it's for me.
Hello. Mr. Alexandre.
That's fine.
Talk to you later. good night.
I don't want to see you sad.
Come see my little museum.
Look at this...
That's my niece.
Geisa. when she was little.
In this one. she's all grown up.
Is that you there?
That's me and my lover
at the time. Andrea.
That was in Italy. in Sassuolo.
Really?
You lived in Italy?
For seven years.
From '36 to '42.
- You never told me that.
- You never asked.
I only came back when the war ended.
I went to Italy to study music.
Then I stayed.
things kept getting worse.
I was unable to come back.
Over there. I was a Communist.
Then an Anarchist.
Or the other way round. I forget.
I saw something there with my own eyes
that I'm not telling you.
I'll take it to my grave.
I also did three things there
which I'm not telling you.
But I did and I had to.
To conclude.
a toast to all of you!
A toast.
- To my friend Geraldo.
- Thank you.
Life has bad things.
but also good things.
To Haroldo. who's not Haroldo.
A toast to Marcelo.
who's Armando.
To this woman
who is Tereza Victória to me.
She's off to Sweden with António.
A toast to Cláudia.
who is Cláudia.
And to Débora.
who I'm sure will live
in a better Brazil.
She will grow up in a better Brazil.
with less mischief.
Cheers. everyone.
Cheers.
Thank you. Dona Sebastiana.
Calm down.
Look at me. I'm here.
PART 3
BLOOD TRANSFUSION
Fuck!
Vilmar.
Mr. Bobbi.
Mr. Augusto.
Is this the man?
This is the man.
Irineu says you're the man.
I don't know about that.
Is he up to the job?
Yes. he is.
It's a job right here in Recife.
Requires great responsibility
and trustworthiness.
Poor or rich?
Fuck knows!
Looks fancy. but he ain't rich.
Fancy looking is rich.
More expensive.
He got a gun?
No.
He's a pussy.
I'll do it for 4.000.
Fuck!
What do you use for the job?
A mid-long. 38.
a sure shot.
I'll give you 2.000.
It's 4.000.
I'll do it for 4.000.
You work in this shithole
carrying sugar
like some animal
to earn peanuts.
It's an easy one.
We have information
that will help you.
"Like some animal"...
I don't like how you talk.
This is our man.
4.000.
4.000 it is.
But you're coming now.
2.000 up front.
Right now.
Severino. I need to go out.
- Back in half an hour.
- Fine.
- You're in charge.
- Sure.
If Santa Cruz win today.
beers on me.
I'll be right back.
OK. Alexandre.
- Excuse me.
- Hello.
- Is Mr. Alexandre here?
- He just left.
Really?
Pity.
HAIRY LEG STEALS
LEG FROM MORGUE
MARIA APARECIDA DOS SANTOS
Maria Augusta?
- Maria Aparecida?
- Maria Aparecida.
Quite a few of them.
Is it your mother?
You're really committed to this. huh?
My mother died
and I'd like to have a document of her.
Even if only one.
And I know
her ID card was issued here.
I'm dead set on finding the file.
I hope you'll find it.
Morning.
- Morning. boss.
- Morning.
Is this where they make ID cards?
Yes. sir.
Brenda Oliveira da Mata.
I just need to speak to someone.
Maria Eugênia...
Armando.
His name is Marcelo.
Elisângela. you can let him in.
- Hi.
- I called you Armando.
- How's Fernando?
- He's fine.
He asked me to give you this.
I had to swear
I'd come in the morning.
Turn it over.
"Dad.
"Grampa and Gramma are very nice.
"but I want to live with you.
"I think I am starting
"to manage to forget Mom.
"Come back quickly.
"Fernando."
You're taking my grandson away.
I'm taking my son.
And you should take him.
You should take him.
I need to go.
You found your mother's document?
Cláudia Andrade Lima Melo.
Excuse me...
Mariana da Rocha Pinheiro.
Mariana?
Thanks.
Next. Cauã Barros Campos.
Demóstenes Guerra Ferreira.
- Excuse me.
- Yes?
Is that Armando?
No.
His name is Marcelo.
Armando.
Armando!
His name's not Armando.
Take a couple guys.
make him scared.
We only have two patrol cars.
Excuse me.
Chief Euclides. excuse me.
Yes. Marcelo.
I need to talk to you guys.
Go ahead.
You know I don't carry a gun.
We're too out in the open
down there.
This man
turned up.
was offensive to the girls.
What the heck.
He threatened me...
He's causing trouble.
so I came to see you.
You need to have a gun. my friend.
Commands respect.
Hold your arm out.
Hold my...
Your hand.
he wants to see your hand.
Hold it out.
Right.
You're nervous.
You messed with his wife?
No. I don't know him.
He's down there now.
Chief Euclides...
I wouldn't have come here
asking for your help
if I didn't think
it's a dangerous situation.
- Arlindo.
- Yes?
Go check it out.
Right on. I'm itching to do it.
- Let's go.
- Thanks. chief.
Marcão. come with me.
something's up.
- Does it have to be now?
- It'll be quick.
Swindlers and con artists
Lieutenant.
Hey. lieutenant.
Phone for you.
Mr. Augusto. it's Vilmar.
I've found the man.
Where?
At the office that makes ID cards.
Are you sure it's him?
Positive.
I had a good look at him.
Do I take 'im out?
Is Bobbi there with you?
No. he stayed at the cinema.
Better.
Take him out.
I will.
Go for the nose.
He's in the phone booth.
That guy in the red cap?
Let's go. Marcão.
I have the rest of your money.
Hey. man...
You're pestering our friend?
Show us some ID.
Man. I know this guy.
I forgot my ID today.
Shots!
A shooting. it's hell in there.
Bastard.
Don't do tomorrow
What you can do
the day after tomorrow!
Hail procrastination!
Long live collective idleness!
A man with a red cap?
That way?
Paid love is
cheaper than love for free!
There's welfare
and there's foresight!
Desire keeps on growing!
Glory means nothing.
nor does the skyline!
What I see is an alley!
Books. books. books
Books for floatation!
Give us a hand...
Where's Arlindo?
- Did you see what happened?
- Yes.
...Needs to be free
And takes no charity!
Take care of what's yours
before it goes away!
Those files can't leave this room.
All lines are busy
because of what happened.
Tell me. your name's not Marcelo. is it?
"Like some animal"...
Elza.
I need the passports now.
Elza...
My time in Recife is over.
Stand back!
Clear off!
CARNIVAL DEATH TOLL: 91
SOUTHERN TOURIST SHOT AT BARBER'S
Motive may have been revenge
Dani.
Yes?
Go ahead.
Did you try to find out
what happened to these people?
You know I'm kind of anxious.
I tried Googling them.
but there's nothing there.
They're all pre-Google.
We need to scan the newspapers.
Yeah. but that's more work.
I'm listening to Anísio.
who tried to help Armando.
you know?
You went back to the Armando case?
You were a bit shaken by it.
weren't you?
Yeah. I needed a break from it.
Well...
I don't know why
but this guy's story got to me.
Probably because
my family's from Pernambuco.
My grandfather.
who was practically my father.
I liked hearing Armando's voice
on my headphones.
He had a good voice.
MURDERED RESEARCHER
WAS ACCUSED OF CORRUPTION
Shall I take him?
Armando Solimões. 43. shot dead...
crime being treated as a hit job.
Say dad.
Thank you. bye.
- Good evening.
I'd like to see
Dr. Fernando de Melo Solimões.
He's expecting me.
Dr. Fernando.
- Flávia. right?
- Exactly.
You're donating?
I am.
How much do you weigh?
52 kilos.
Flávia?
Dr. Fernando.
Very nice to meet you.
How are you?
I was joking when I said
I'd only see you if you gave blood.
It's a good thing. though.
First time I've given blood.
You're in good hands.
Right. Rosa?
Everything is fine.
Can I see my blood?
You from Minas Gerais?
Yes. but I've lived in São Paulo
for a few years.
I wasn't really into the idea
at first.
but I'm happy I've done this.
- Can I get this?
- Yes. please.
Thanks. Rosa.
Thank you. Rosa.
It's snacks now.
I'll get her a chocolate milk.
I know your father spent some time
searching for an identity record
of his mother
here in Recife. didn't he?
It's on the tapes.
You see. I don't know...
I didn't know that.
About my grandmother
on my father's side.
all I know is her name.
"Maria Aparecida dos Santos"
known as "Índia".
That's all I know.
Do you have any papers
of your grandmother?
Nothing. I never saw her.
No pictures. nothing.
No records whatsoever.
My grandfather on my father's side
impregnated
the daughter of the family's housemaid
in Bonito.
here in Pernambuco.
My grandfather was 17.
and my grandmother was 14.
a child.
She was like...
She did all the housework.
She was a kind of servant...
Like...
a slave...
or an enslaved person.
I don't know...
She really was enslaved.
And my grandmother was known as...
Everyone called her "Índia".
just "Índia".
And my father. her son...
Everyone said he was
a "beautiful" boy.
So she was "Índia".
and my father was "beautiful".
You see?
It's not easy.
I find it so hard
to speak about this...
I'm doing it because you insisted.
You're really something else.
you sent emails. you called...
But it's hard for me
to speak about this.
But...
What about your father Armando?
My father Armando
was born of that relationship
between a 17-year-old boy
and a 14-year-old girl.
And...
The wealthy side of the family...
"wealthy" so to speak...
That is. my grandfather's family.
They took my father to raise him.
and his mother couldn't do anything.
she was a child.
Listen. here's the thing.
I work for a private university
that paid me to transcribe the tapes
they got from that archive.
And now they want the tapes back.
they feel there's
sensitive information on them.
So they asked for all the tapes back.
But that doesn't really matter.
because I made copies
of all the recordings.
I said you're something else.
didn't I?
But also the reason I came is.
I appreciated hearing
your father's testimony.
Hearing people talk about him.
Flávia...
how did those recordings reach you?
Through the daughter of Sara Guebert.
who your father knew as "Elza"
when he was under persecution.
Flávia. I won't go into that.
OK?
That's all right.
In fact...
I've brought this
with all the recordings I copied.
Everything I got
is in here.
Your father's voice is here.
and people talking about him.
It's yours.
You can keep it
and do whatever you like with it.
You know. my grandfather Alexandre...
who brought me up
and who I consider to be my father...
He told me that...
He was always telling this story.
When my father...
The day my father died.
I was showered and ready.
I'd put on my favorite clothes
and I stood there
outside the house.
waiting for him.
The plan was
he'd come to pick me up.
I honestly don't remember that.
Like. someone tells you something
and you create a memory.
But I don't know if I remember that day.
I am talking to you about him.
but I don't...
The truth is. I don't remember him.
The truth is.
you remember my father
more than I do.
I don't think I helped you much.
It's all right.
It was great to meet you.
This trip to Recife is also
an opportunity for me
to meet some relatives
I only know through the phone.
You have family here?
My grandfather is from here.
He worked for a family
not far from here.
on Chora Menino Square.
I love that. "Chora Menino" [Cry-baby].
Great name for a square.
I've heard about this place
since I was little.
Quite a coincidence.
me ending up here.
You want a coincidence?
When I was little.
I really wanted
to see that movie Jaws.
- I know it.
- You do?
My grandfather would not let me.
the poster alone scared me.
the shark with that huge mouth.
He was a projectionist
at the São Luiz cinema.
One day. he took me to see it.
Out of the blue.
I got ready and went.
From the day I saw the movie.
the shark nightmares were gone.
Here's the coincidence.
Guess where I saw the movie.
I don't know any local cinemas.
Right here.
This used to be a cinema?
The Boa Vista cinema.
where I saw Jaws.
- It's changed a lot.
- It has.
It's a different place.
And now I work here.
- Your car?
- It's here.
Thank you. Fernando.
Thank you.
THE SECRET AGENT